Tips 1:

This is a substantial review of a subject of your own choosing related to bicycle design and your
mini-project. The review should describe what is known and, just as importantly, what is not well
known to act as a basis for the mini-project plan. The review should contain your own synthesis of
the available literature, as well as a critique. For bicycle research, there are many resources where
your level of confidence in their findings may be lower, and it will be important to assess this
element within the review. It is also important to look beyond the narrow field of the mini-project
topic area to draw in knowledge from a wider field. Further discussion of how to write this literature
review, with examples and suggestion links will be included on the moodle page - please read this
advice to avoid falling into common pitfalls for this aspect of the project. The references can be put
in an appendix so not counting to the page limit.


Tips 2:

The idea of a literature review is to describe what is known in the relevant field, synthesising different findings, to give an enhanced understanding of the field and identify what is known, good tools to apply to further the work, gaps in knowledge... It should not just be a series of descriptions of bits of work, but should include your own 'skill and judgement' in interpreting findings.

A key aspect of the literature review will be identifying the scope and subject headings, with each topic/section covering a range of papers with complementary views and information.

The review should not normally devote separate sections to describing individual papers, rather a topic should include material from a selection of sources.

For this project, it could be helpful to draw out some thoughts on conclusions relating to your mini-project, but I suggest including those in a separate section rather than scattered through the review.

Note the importance of the structure of the review, as well as really well explained sections pulling together different strands of work with plenty of input in terms of thoughts. Much more than a short description of many papers, but a synthesis of ideas.